What are hints?
--------------

A hint allows the user to override the optimizer in order to coerce a plan
shape by disregarding its estimated cost compared to alternative plans. It may
only be used to coerce plans that exist in ORCA's plan space.

In Greenplum, plan hints are enabled through a custom extension [1] that
provides a similar interface to pg_hint_plan [2], which is based on Postgres.


Parser
------

Writing a parser is hard. Instead, let's utilize the parser provided by
pg_hint_plan. But, how can ORCA access an extension's parsed data structures?
Hooks!

When the hint extension is loaded, it sets plan_hint_hook to the hint parser
routine. When ORCA finds plan_hint_hook is set, it executes the parser routine
and then translates the pg_hint_plan HintState into ORCA hint structures.

There are 4 hint types:

  1. Scan
  2. Row
  3. Join
  4. Motion


Hint Container
--------------

CPlanHint is a container that holds all the parsed hints. It is a globally
accessible structure attached to COptimizerConfig.

In DXL format it might look like:
```
<dxl:OptimizerConfig>
  ...
  <dxl:PlanHint>
    <dxl:ScanHint Alias="table_1" OperatorName="NoIndexScan,NoIndexOnlyScan"/>
    <dxl:ScanHint Alias="table_2" OperatorName="ScanScan"/>
    <dxl:ScanHint Alias="table_3" OperatorName="IndexScan" IndexName="my_awesome_index"/>
  </dxl:PlanHint>
  ...
</dxl:OptimizerConfig>
```


Scan Hints
----------

How is it represented?

CScanHint contains all the scan hints on a single relation. There may be more
than one hint per relation.

How does it work?

In exploration phase, transfoms add logical plan alternatives. If scan hints
are specified, then the transformed operators must satisfy the hints in order
to be considered as a valid alternative.

Each relevant operator has a CHintUtils::SatisfiesPlanHints() function. That
function is responsible for checking that the proposed alternative operator
satisfies all corresponding hints.

Each scan hint specifies one ore more scan types (e.g. NoSeqScan, NoIndexScan,
etc). It is the responsiblity of CScanHint::SatisfiesOperator() to check that
the proposed alternative operator satisfies all of the hint's scan types.


Row Hints
---------

How is it represented?

CRowHint contains all row hints for a set of relations.

How does it work?

In CLogicalJoin stats derive, if the children aliases matches a specified row
hint, then update the row estimate accordingly.


Join Hints
----------

How is it represented?

CJoinHint contains all join hints for a set of relations. There are 2 kinds of
join hints:

  1) order
    a) direction
      Leading((T1 (T2 T3)))

    b) direction-less
      Leading(T1 T2 T3)

  2) kind
    a) hash
    b) merge
    c) nest loop

How does it work?

Join order hints are applied in preprocessing stage. For each nary join we
check wether a corresponding join hint exists. If it does, then transform the
child expressions into inner joins that satisfy the join order hints.


Motion Hints
------------
TODO


Supported Hints
---------------
  SeqScan
  NoSeqScan
  IndexScan
  NoIndexScan
  IndexOnlyScan
  NoIndexOnlyScan
  BitmapScan
  NoBitmapScan
  Leading
  Rows


Unsupported Hints
-----------------
  TidScan
  NoTidScan
  NestLoop
  NoNestLoop
  HashJoin
  NoHashJoin
  MergeJoin,
  NoMergeJoin
  Parallel

[1] https://github.com/pivotal/pg_hint_plan/tree/PG12
[2] https://github.com/ossc-db/pg_hint_plan
